docs/upgrade.md, before:

---
title: Upgrade guide
description: Guide to update between major Powertools for AWS Lambda (TypeScript) versions
---

## Migrate from v1 to v2

V2 is focused on official support for ESM (ECMAScript modules). We've made other minimal breaking changes to make your transition to v2 as smooth as possible.

### Quick summary

| Area                  | Change                                                                                                                         | Code change required |
| --------------------- |--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------| -------------------- |
| **ESM support**       | Added ESM support via dual CommonJS and ESM bundling, enabling top-level `await` and tree-shaking.                             | -                    |
| **Middy.js**          | Updated import path for Middy.js middlewares to leverage subpath exports - i.e. `@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer/middleware`.    | Yes                  |
| **Types imports**     | Updated import path for TypeScript types to leverage subpath exports - i.e. `@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/types`.             | Yes                  |
| **Logger**            | Changed [log sampling](./core/logger.md#sampling-logs) to dynamically switch log level to `DEBUG` on a percentage of requests. | -                    |
| **Logger**            | Updated [custom log formatter](#custom-log-formatter) to include standard as well as persistent keys.                          | Yes                  |
| **Logger**            | Removed `ContextExamples` from `@aws-lambda-powertools/commons` package.                                                       | Yes                  |
| **Logger and Tracer** | Removed deprecated `createLogger` and `createTracer` helper functions in favor of direct instantiation.                        | Yes                  |


### First steps

Before you start, we suggest making a copy of your current working project or create a new git branch.

1. Upgrade Node.js to v16 or higher, Node.js v20 is recommended.
2. Ensure that you have the latest Powertools for AWS Lambda (TypeScript) version via [Lambda Layer](./index.md#lambda-layer) or npm.
3. Review the following sections to confirm whether they apply to your codebase.

## ESM support

With support for ES Modules in v2, you can now use `import` instead of `require` syntax.

This is especially useful when you want to run asynchronous code during the initialization phase by using top-level `await`.

```typescript title="top-level await example in v2"
import { getSecret } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/parameters/secrets';

// This code will run during the initialization phase of your Lambda function
const myApiKey = await getSecret('my-api-key', { transform: 'json' });

export const handler = async (_event: unknown, _context: unknown) => {
    // ...
};
```

In v2, we improved tree-shaking support to help you reduce your function bundle size. We would love to hear your feedback on further improvements we could make.

### Unable to use ESM?

!!! note "We recommend using ESM for the best experience _(top-level await, smaller bundle size etc.)_."

If you're unable to use ESM, you can still use the `require` syntax to import the package. We will continue to support it by shipping CommonJS modules alongside ESM.

You might still need the `require` syntax when using a dependency or a transitive dependency that doesn't support ESM. For example, Tracer _(`@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer`)_ relies on the AWS X-Ray SDK for Node.js which uses `require`.

When that happens, you can instruct your bundler to use the `require` syntax for specific dependencies while using ESM for everything else. This is commonly known as [polyfill](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Polyfill){target="_blank"}. 
Here is an example using `esbuild` bundler.

=== "With AWS CDK"

    ```typescript hl_lines="15 20-21"
    import { Stack, type StackProps } from 'aws-cdk-lib';
    import { Construct } from 'constructs';
    import { NodejsFunction, OutputFormat } from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-lambda-nodejs';
    import { Runtime } from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-lambda';

    export class MyStack extends Stack {
      public constructor(scope: Construct, id: string, props?: StackProps) {
        super(scope, id, props);

        const handler = new NodejsFunction(this, 'helloWorldFunction', {
          runtime: Runtime.NODEJS_20_X,
          handler: 'handler',
          entry: 'src/index.ts',
          bundling: {
            format: OutputFormat.ESM,
            minify: true,
            esbuildArgs: {
              "--tree-shaking": "true",
            },
            banner: 
              "import { createRequire } from 'module';const require = createRequire(import.meta.url);", // (1)!
          },
        });
      }
    }
    ```
    
    1. `esbuild` will include this arbitrary code at the top of your bundle to maximize CommonJS compatibility _(`require` keyword)_.

=== "With AWS SAM"

    ```yaml hl_lines="14 17-18"
    Transform: AWS::Serverless-2016-10-31
    Resources:
      HelloWorldFunction:
        Type: AWS::Serverless::Function
        Properties:
          Runtime: nodejs20.x
          Handler: src/index.handler
        Metadata:
          BuildMethod: esbuild
          BuildProperties:
            Minify: true
            Target: 'ES2020'
            Sourcemap: true
            Format: esm
            EntryPoints:
              - src/index.ts
            Banner:
              js: "import { createRequire } from 'module';const require = createRequire(import.meta.url);"  # (1)!
 
    ```

    1. `esbuild` will include this arbitrary code at the top of your bundle to maximize CommonJS compatibility _(`require` keyword)_.

## Scoped imports

### Middy.js middleware imports

???+ note "Disregard if you are not using Middy.js middlewares."
    In v2, we've added support for subpath exports. This means if you don't import Middy.js middlewares, you will benefit from a smaller bundle size.

In v1, you could import Middy.js middlewares from the default export of a package _(e.g., `logger`)_. For example, you'd import `injectLambdaContext` Logger middleware from `@aws-lambda-powertools/logger`.

In v2, you can now import only the Middy.js middlewares you want to use from a subpath export, _e.g., `@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/middleware`_, leading to a smaller bundle size.

=== "Before"

    ```typescript
    import { Logger, injectLambdaContext } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger';
    import { Tracer, captureLambdaHandler } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer';
    import { Metrics, logMetrics } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/metrics';
    ```

=== "After"

    ```typescript hl_lines="2 5 8"
    import { Logger } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger';
    import { injectLambdaContext } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/middleware';
    
    import { Tracer } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer';
    import { captureLambdaHandler } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer/middleware';
    
    import { Metrics } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/metrics';
    import { logMetrics } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/metrics/middleware';
    ```

### Types imports

In v1, you could import package types from each package under `/lib`, for example `@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/lib/types`.

In v2, you can now directly import from the `types` subpath export, e.g., `@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/types`. This will optimize your bundle size, standardize types import across packages, future-proofing growth.

=== "Before"

    ```typescript
    import { LogAttributes, UnformattedAttributes } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/lib/types';
    ```

=== "After"

    ```typescript
    import { LogAttributes, UnformattedAttributes } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/types';
    ```

## Logger

### Log sampling

!!! note "Disregard if you are not using the [log sampling feature](./core/logger.md#sampling-logs)."

In v1, log sampling implementation was inconsistent from other Powertools for AWS Lambda languages _(Python, .NET, and Java)_. 

In v2, we changed these behaviors for consistency across languages:

| Behavior                | v1                                                           | v2                                            |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------- |
| Log Level               | Log level remains unchanged but any log statement is printed | Log level changes to `DEBUG`                  |
| Log sampling indication | No indication                                                | Debug message indicates sampling is in effect |

Logger `sampleRateValue` **continues** to determine the percentage of concurrent/cold start invocations that logs will be sampled, _e.g., log level set to `DEBUG`_.

### Custom log formatter

!!! note "Disregard if you are not customizing log output with a [custom log formatter](./core/logger.md#custom-log-formatter-bring-your-own-formatter)."

In v1, `Logger` exposed the [standard](./core/logger.md#standard-structured-keys) as a single argument, _e.g., `formatAttributes(attributes: UnformattedAttributes)`_. It expected a plain object with keys and values you wanted in the final log output.

In v2, you have more control over **standard** (`attributes`) and [**custom keys**](./core/logger.md#appending-persistent-additional-log-keys-and-values) (`additionalLogAttributes`) in the `formatAttributes` method. Also, you now return a `LogItem` object to increase type safety when defining the final log output.

=== "Before"

    ```typescript hl_lines="5 8"
    import { LogFormatter } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger';
    import {
      LogAttributes,
      UnformattedAttributes,
    } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/lib/types';

    class MyCompanyLogFormatter extends LogFormatter {
      public formatAttributes(attributes: UnformattedAttributes): LogAttributes {
        return {
          message: attributes.message,
          service: attributes.serviceName,
          environment: attributes.environment,
          awsRegion: attributes.awsRegion,
          correlationIds: {
            awsRequestId: attributes.lambdaContext?.awsRequestId,
            xRayTraceId: attributes.xRayTraceId,
          },
          lambdaFunction: {
            name: attributes.lambdaContext?.functionName,
            arn: attributes.lambdaContext?.invokedFunctionArn,
            memoryLimitInMB: attributes.lambdaContext?.memoryLimitInMB,
            version: attributes.lambdaContext?.functionVersion,
            coldStart: attributes.lambdaContext?.coldStart,
          },
          logLevel: attributes.logLevel,
          timestamp: this.formatTimestamp(attributes.timestamp),
          logger: {
            sampleRateValue: attributes.sampleRateValue,
          },
        };
      }
    }

    export { MyCompanyLogFormatter };
    ```

=== "After"

    ```typescript hl_lines="1-2 5-8"
    import { LogFormatter, LogItem } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger';
    import type { LogAttributes, UnformattedAttributes } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/types';

    class MyCompanyLogFormatter extends LogFormatter {
      public formatAttributes(
        attributes: UnformattedAttributes,
        additionalLogAttributes: LogAttributes  // (1)!
      ): LogItem {  // (2)!
        const baseAttributes = {
            message: attributes.message,
            service: attributes.serviceName,
            environment: attributes.environment,
            awsRegion: attributes.awsRegion,
            correlationIds: {
                awsRequestId: attributes.lambdaContext?.awsRequestId,
                xRayTraceId: attributes.xRayTraceId,
            },
            lambdaFunction: {
                name: attributes.lambdaContext?.functionName,
                arn: attributes.lambdaContext?.invokedFunctionArn,
                memoryLimitInMB: attributes.lambdaContext?.memoryLimitInMB,
                version: attributes.lambdaContext?.functionVersion,
                coldStart: attributes.lambdaContext?.coldStart,
            },
            logLevel: attributes.logLevel,
            timestamp: this.formatTimestamp(attributes.timestamp),
            logger: {
                sampleRateValue: attributes.sampleRateValue,
            },
        };

        // Create a new LogItem with the base attributes
        const logItem = new LogItem({ attributes: baseAttributes });

        // Merge additional attributes
        logItem.addAttributes(additionalLogAttributes); // (3)!

        return logItem;
      }
    }

    export { MyCompanyLogFormatter };
    ```

    1. This new argument contains all [your custom keys](./core/logger.md#appending-persistent-additional-log-keys-and-values).
    2. `LogItem` is the new return object instead of a plain object.
    3. If you prefer adding at the initialization, use: <br/><br/> **`LogItem({persistentAttributes: additionalLogAttributes, attributes: baseAttributes})`**

### ContextExamples for testing

In v1, we have provided a `ContextExamples` object to help you with testing.

In v2, we have removed the `ContextExamples` from the `@aws-lambda-powertools/commons` package, so you need to create it in your tests: 

=== "Before"

    ```typescript
    import { ContextExamples as dummyContext } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/commons';
    
    describe('MyUnitTest', () => {
      test('Lambda invoked successfully', async () => {
        const testEvent = { test: 'test' };
        await handler(testEvent, dummyContext);
      });
    });
    ```

=== "After"

    ```typescript
    declare const handler: (event: unknown, context: unknown) => Promise<void>;
    
    const context = {
      callbackWaitsForEmptyEventLoop: true,
      functionVersion: '$LATEST',
      functionName: 'foo-bar-function',
      memoryLimitInMB: '128',
      logGroupName: '/aws/lambda/foo-bar-function-123456abcdef',
      logStreamName: '2021/03/09/[$LATEST]abcdef123456abcdef123456abcdef123456',
      invokedFunctionArn:
      'arn:aws:lambda:eu-west-1:123456789012:function:foo-bar-function',
      awsRequestId: 'c6af9ac6-7b61-11e6-9a41-93e812345678',
      getRemainingTimeInMillis: () => 1234,
      done: () => console.log('Done!'),
      fail: () => console.log('Failed!'),
      succeed: () => console.log('Succeeded!'),
    };
    
    describe('MyUnitTest', () => {
      test('Lambda invoked successfully', async () => {
        const testEvent = { test: 'test' };
        await handler(testEvent, context);
      });
    });
    ```



## Helper functions

We removed the deprecated `createLogger` and `createTracer` heper functions.

```typescript
import { createLogger } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger';
import { createTracer } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer';

const logger = createLogger({ logLevel: 'info' });
const tracer = createTracer({ serviceName: 'my-service' });
```

You can migrate to instantiating the `Logger` and `Tracer` classes directly with no additional changes.

```typescript
import { Logger } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger';
import { Tracer } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer';

const logger = new Logger({ logLevel: 'info' });
const tracer = new Tracer({ serviceName: 'my-service' });
```

Commit message:

docs(maintenance): update v1 and v2 status (#2226)

docs/upgrade.md, after:

---
title: Upgrade guide
description: Guide to update between major Powertools for AWS Lambda (TypeScript) versions
---

## End of support v1

!!! warning "On March 13th, 2024, Powertools for AWS Lambda (TypeScript) v1 entered maintenance mode, and will reach end-of-life on September 1st, 2024. If you are still using v1, we strongly recommend you to read our upgrade guide and update to the latest version."

Given our commitment to all of our customers using Powertools for AWS Lambda (TypeScript), we will keep npm v1 releases and documentation 1.x versions to prevent any disruption.

## Migrate from v1 to v2

V2 is focused on official support for ESM (ECMAScript modules). We've made other minimal breaking changes to make your transition to v2 as smooth as possible.

### Quick summary

| Area                  | Change                                                                                                                         | Code change required |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------- |
| **ESM support**       | Added ESM support via dual CommonJS and ESM bundling, enabling top-level `await` and tree-shaking.                             | -                    |
| **Middy.js**          | Updated import path for Middy.js middlewares to leverage subpath exports - i.e. `@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer/middleware`.    | Yes                  |
| **Types imports**     | Updated import path for TypeScript types to leverage subpath exports - i.e. `@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/types`.             | Yes                  |
| **Logger**            | Changed [log sampling](./core/logger.md#sampling-logs) to dynamically switch log level to `DEBUG` on a percentage of requests. | -                    |
| **Logger**            | Updated [custom log formatter](#custom-log-formatter) to include standard as well as persistent keys.                          | Yes                  |
| **Logger**            | Removed `ContextExamples` from `@aws-lambda-powertools/commons` package.                                                       | Yes                  |
| **Logger and Tracer** | Removed deprecated `createLogger` and `createTracer` helper functions in favor of direct instantiation.                        | Yes                  |


### First steps

Before you start, we suggest making a copy of your current working project or create a new git branch.

1. Upgrade Node.js to v16 or higher, Node.js v20 is recommended.
2. Ensure that you have the latest Powertools for AWS Lambda (TypeScript) version via [Lambda Layer](./index.md#lambda-layer) or npm.
3. Review the following sections to confirm whether they apply to your codebase.

## ESM support

With support for ES Modules in v2, you can now use `import` instead of `require` syntax.

This is especially useful when you want to run asynchronous code during the initialization phase by using top-level `await`.

```typescript title="top-level await example in v2"
import { getSecret } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/parameters/secrets';

// This code will run during the initialization phase of your Lambda function
const myApiKey = await getSecret('my-api-key', { transform: 'json' });

export const handler = async (_event: unknown, _context: unknown) => {
    // ...
};
```

In v2, we improved tree-shaking support to help you reduce your function bundle size. We would love to hear your feedback on further improvements we could make.

### Unable to use ESM?

!!! note "We recommend using ESM for the best experience _(top-level await, smaller bundle size etc.)_."

If you're unable to use ESM, you can still use the `require` syntax to import the package. We will continue to support it by shipping CommonJS modules alongside ESM.

You might still need the `require` syntax when using a dependency or a transitive dependency that doesn't support ESM. For example, Tracer _(`@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer`)_ relies on the AWS X-Ray SDK for Node.js which uses `require`.

When that happens, you can instruct your bundler to use the `require` syntax for specific dependencies while using ESM for everything else. This is commonly known as [polyfill](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Polyfill){target="_blank"}. 
Here is an example using `esbuild` bundler.

=== "With AWS CDK"

    ```typescript hl_lines="15 20-21"
    import { Stack, type StackProps } from 'aws-cdk-lib';
    import { Construct } from 'constructs';
    import { NodejsFunction, OutputFormat } from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-lambda-nodejs';
    import { Runtime } from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-lambda';

    export class MyStack extends Stack {
      public constructor(scope: Construct, id: string, props?: StackProps) {
        super(scope, id, props);

        const handler = new NodejsFunction(this, 'helloWorldFunction', {
          runtime: Runtime.NODEJS_20_X,
          handler: 'handler',
          entry: 'src/index.ts',
          bundling: {
            format: OutputFormat.ESM,
            minify: true,
            esbuildArgs: {
              "--tree-shaking": "true",
            },
            banner: 
              "import { createRequire } from 'module';const require = createRequire(import.meta.url);", // (1)!
          },
        });
      }
    }
    ```
    
    1. `esbuild` will include this arbitrary code at the top of your bundle to maximize CommonJS compatibility _(`require` keyword)_.

=== "With AWS SAM"

    ```yaml hl_lines="14 17-18"
    Transform: AWS::Serverless-2016-10-31
    Resources:
      HelloWorldFunction:
        Type: AWS::Serverless::Function
        Properties:
          Runtime: nodejs20.x
          Handler: src/index.handler
        Metadata:
          BuildMethod: esbuild
          BuildProperties:
            Minify: true
            Target: 'ES2020'
            Sourcemap: true
            Format: esm
            EntryPoints:
              - src/index.ts
            Banner:
              js: "import { createRequire } from 'module';const require = createRequire(import.meta.url);"  # (1)!
 
    ```

    1. `esbuild` will include this arbitrary code at the top of your bundle to maximize CommonJS compatibility _(`require` keyword)_.

## Scoped imports

### Middy.js middleware imports

???+ note "Disregard if you are not using Middy.js middlewares."
    In v2, we've added support for subpath exports. This means if you don't import Middy.js middlewares, you will benefit from a smaller bundle size.

In v1, you could import Middy.js middlewares from the default export of a package _(e.g., `logger`)_. For example, you'd import `injectLambdaContext` Logger middleware from `@aws-lambda-powertools/logger`.

In v2, you can now import only the Middy.js middlewares you want to use from a subpath export, _e.g., `@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/middleware`_, leading to a smaller bundle size.

=== "Before"

    ```typescript
    import { Logger, injectLambdaContext } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger';
    import { Tracer, captureLambdaHandler } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer';
    import { Metrics, logMetrics } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/metrics';
    ```

=== "After"

    ```typescript hl_lines="2 5 8"
    import { Logger } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger';
    import { injectLambdaContext } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/middleware';
    
    import { Tracer } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer';
    import { captureLambdaHandler } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer/middleware';
    
    import { Metrics } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/metrics';
    import { logMetrics } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/metrics/middleware';
    ```

### Types imports

In v1, you could import package types from each package under `/lib`, for example `@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/lib/types`.

In v2, you can now directly import from the `types` subpath export, e.g., `@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/types`. This will optimize your bundle size, standardize types import across packages, future-proofing growth.

=== "Before"

    ```typescript
    import { LogAttributes, UnformattedAttributes } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/lib/types';
    ```

=== "After"

    ```typescript
    import { LogAttributes, UnformattedAttributes } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/types';
    ```

## Logger

### Log sampling

!!! note "Disregard if you are not using the [log sampling feature](./core/logger.md#sampling-logs)."

In v1, log sampling implementation was inconsistent from other Powertools for AWS Lambda languages _(Python, .NET, and Java)_. 

In v2, we changed these behaviors for consistency across languages:

| Behavior                | v1                                                           | v2                                            |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------- |
| Log Level               | Log level remains unchanged but any log statement is printed | Log level changes to `DEBUG`                  |
| Log sampling indication | No indication                                                | Debug message indicates sampling is in effect |

Logger `sampleRateValue` **continues** to determine the percentage of concurrent/cold start invocations that logs will be sampled, _e.g., log level set to `DEBUG`_.

### Custom log formatter

!!! note "Disregard if you are not customizing log output with a [custom log formatter](./core/logger.md#custom-log-formatter-bring-your-own-formatter)."

In v1, `Logger` exposed the [standard](./core/logger.md#standard-structured-keys) as a single argument, _e.g., `formatAttributes(attributes: UnformattedAttributes)`_. It expected a plain object with keys and values you wanted in the final log output.

In v2, you have more control over **standard** (`attributes`) and [**custom keys**](./core/logger.md#appending-persistent-additional-log-keys-and-values) (`additionalLogAttributes`) in the `formatAttributes` method. Also, you now return a `LogItem` object to increase type safety when defining the final log output.

=== "Before"

    ```typescript hl_lines="5 8"
    import { LogFormatter } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger';
    import {
      LogAttributes,
      UnformattedAttributes,
    } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/lib/types';

    class MyCompanyLogFormatter extends LogFormatter {
      public formatAttributes(attributes: UnformattedAttributes): LogAttributes {
        return {
          message: attributes.message,
          service: attributes.serviceName,
          environment: attributes.environment,
          awsRegion: attributes.awsRegion,
          correlationIds: {
            awsRequestId: attributes.lambdaContext?.awsRequestId,
            xRayTraceId: attributes.xRayTraceId,
          },
          lambdaFunction: {
            name: attributes.lambdaContext?.functionName,
            arn: attributes.lambdaContext?.invokedFunctionArn,
            memoryLimitInMB: attributes.lambdaContext?.memoryLimitInMB,
            version: attributes.lambdaContext?.functionVersion,
            coldStart: attributes.lambdaContext?.coldStart,
          },
          logLevel: attributes.logLevel,
          timestamp: this.formatTimestamp(attributes.timestamp),
          logger: {
            sampleRateValue: attributes.sampleRateValue,
          },
        };
      }
    }

    export { MyCompanyLogFormatter };
    ```

=== "After"

    ```typescript hl_lines="1-2 5-8"
    import { LogFormatter, LogItem } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger';
    import type { LogAttributes, UnformattedAttributes } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger/types';

    class MyCompanyLogFormatter extends LogFormatter {
      public formatAttributes(
        attributes: UnformattedAttributes,
        additionalLogAttributes: LogAttributes  // (1)!
      ): LogItem {  // (2)!
        const baseAttributes = {
            message: attributes.message,
            service: attributes.serviceName,
            environment: attributes.environment,
            awsRegion: attributes.awsRegion,
            correlationIds: {
                awsRequestId: attributes.lambdaContext?.awsRequestId,
                xRayTraceId: attributes.xRayTraceId,
            },
            lambdaFunction: {
                name: attributes.lambdaContext?.functionName,
                arn: attributes.lambdaContext?.invokedFunctionArn,
                memoryLimitInMB: attributes.lambdaContext?.memoryLimitInMB,
                version: attributes.lambdaContext?.functionVersion,
                coldStart: attributes.lambdaContext?.coldStart,
            },
            logLevel: attributes.logLevel,
            timestamp: this.formatTimestamp(attributes.timestamp),
            logger: {
                sampleRateValue: attributes.sampleRateValue,
            },
        };

        // Create a new LogItem with the base attributes
        const logItem = new LogItem({ attributes: baseAttributes });

        // Merge additional attributes
        logItem.addAttributes(additionalLogAttributes); // (3)!

        return logItem;
      }
    }

    export { MyCompanyLogFormatter };
    ```

    1. This new argument contains all [your custom keys](./core/logger.md#appending-persistent-additional-log-keys-and-values).
    2. `LogItem` is the new return object instead of a plain object.
    3. If you prefer adding at the initialization, use: <br/><br/> **`LogItem({persistentAttributes: additionalLogAttributes, attributes: baseAttributes})`**

### ContextExamples for testing

In v1, we have provided a `ContextExamples` object to help you with testing.

In v2, we have removed the `ContextExamples` from the `@aws-lambda-powertools/commons` package, so you need to create it in your tests: 

=== "Before"

    ```typescript
    import { ContextExamples as dummyContext } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/commons';
    
    describe('MyUnitTest', () => {
      test('Lambda invoked successfully', async () => {
        const testEvent = { test: 'test' };
        await handler(testEvent, dummyContext);
      });
    });
    ```

=== "After"

    ```typescript
    declare const handler: (event: unknown, context: unknown) => Promise<void>;
    
    const context = {
      callbackWaitsForEmptyEventLoop: true,
      functionVersion: '$LATEST',
      functionName: 'foo-bar-function',
      memoryLimitInMB: '128',
      logGroupName: '/aws/lambda/foo-bar-function-123456abcdef',
      logStreamName: '2021/03/09/[$LATEST]abcdef123456abcdef123456abcdef123456',
      invokedFunctionArn:
      'arn:aws:lambda:eu-west-1:123456789012:function:foo-bar-function',
      awsRequestId: 'c6af9ac6-7b61-11e6-9a41-93e812345678',
      getRemainingTimeInMillis: () => 1234,
      done: () => console.log('Done!'),
      fail: () => console.log('Failed!'),
      succeed: () => console.log('Succeeded!'),
    };
    
    describe('MyUnitTest', () => {
      test('Lambda invoked successfully', async () => {
        const testEvent = { test: 'test' };
        await handler(testEvent, context);
      });
    });
    ```



## Helper functions

We removed the deprecated `createLogger` and `createTracer` heper functions.

```typescript
import { createLogger } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger';
import { createTracer } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer';

const logger = createLogger({ logLevel: 'info' });
const tracer = createTracer({ serviceName: 'my-service' });
```

You can migrate to instantiating the `Logger` and `Tracer` classes directly with no additional changes.

```typescript
import { Logger } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/logger';
import { Tracer } from '@aws-lambda-powertools/tracer';

const logger = new Logger({ logLevel: 'info' });
const tracer = new Tracer({ serviceName: 'my-service' });
```
